Summa Priimydia: The Rough Outline of the Histories of the Priimydian Peoples
1. The Demiurge and The One (??? - 2000 BG):
   1. In the beginning, there was only The One. It was the maker of all life that is or ever was. It wrought the souls of man and the spiritual and mystical fabric of reality. The One sought a language in which the spiritual would take form and thus created The Demiurge. For The Demiurge was to fashion an ordered world amidst the chaos of The One. From this fashioning material existence and basic life was brought to be. This being done, The Demiurge then created his own favored peoples and vouchsafed them the responsibility of consciousness which had at first been a sole gift of he and The One. These were The Priimydians, for they would live in the first city of Priimydia, and the first amongst them was called Priotheer (4400 BG), for he was first amongst the first. Priotheer was gifted with long life and the ability to draw power from his years to do the greatest goods or the basest evils. For upon using his years he tapped into the magic of The Demiurge; he could prophesize, summon the light of creation, and transport his presence anywhere within the newly created universe. He would continue, as The Demiurge did before him, to act as a natural conduit for the light (magic) of The One as Main Descendents of The One are made to do.


      1. Main Descendents of The One include divine beings and Priotheer.


   2. The Demiurge, after having completed his sole purpose, began to die; however, he broke himself down and brought gods to being out of his remnants in order to live on.


2. The gods and Their Downfall (2000 BG - 0 AG):
   1. After the demise of The Demiurge the realms (Isfyd, Orfyd, Aerul, Palus, and Inanis) became more distinct and this marked the beginning of the end for the unified realm which was the universe. For each of the realms there reigned a god supreme: Isgrine to for the infernal realm of Isfyd, Orson for the earth realm of Orfyd, Aerun for the empyreal expanse of Aerul, Paludin for the swamp realm of Palus, and Inanius for dark void that was Inanin.
   2. At this time, the Priimydians were growing numerous and their fortunes abundant. The gods saw this to be a threat to their hegemony and sought to devour the favoured peoples. King Priotheer, forseeing the wickedness of the gods, sought to overthrow them. He chose amongst his people five champions to command five great armies to slay the five gods. However, he made the five take a pact that, should they triumph, they should stay out of the affairs of ordinary man lest the fate of the gods be dealt on them.
   3. After a thousand years of bloodshed The Priimydians thrust the gods into the jaws of death. Each of The Guardians, as the five champions came to be known, that dealt the killing blow to their opposing gods were granted their powers. However, their power was not great enough to keep the realms unified and so the unified realm was shattered with each of the five great Priimydian armies isolated from the rest.


3. The Age and subsequent War of The Guardians (0 AG - 1000 AG):
   1. Just as the gods had been made distinct by their realms, so to did the guardians as each watched over their own: Irinius for Isfyd, Ovulus for Orfyd (where the Priimydians dwelled in Priimydia), Aer for Aerun, Palicus for Palus, and Inascius for Inanin.
   2. The guardians gained the likeness of gods and were able to travel between the realms; however, the Priimydians in each of the realms outside of Orfyd could not and, thus, were slowly turned into monstrous beings fashioned out of the magical environments in which they dwelt.
   3. The Priimydians of the city, now the only Priimydians, hoping to find their dear brethren and unaware of their loss, devised a way to travel between realms. Although portals would allow them to travel from their realm into any realm which they chose, it was not without a calamonous cost. Each time a portal was opened into another realm a part of the space from that realm inched closure to Orfyd. Therefore, miniature collisions with contacted realms would occur and bring with them their monsters before the realms would snap back into place, though closer overall than they were before.
   4. Priotheer, noticing this and foreseeing that they meant the collision of the realms and the death of all life, used the magic of his years and created an encircling wall around the known world in which the Priimydians dwelt (500 AG). This wall cut the portals off from the realms and severed the Priimydians from the world which lay outside of their continent. For whenever one would venture to sail from one side of the continent they would find themselves on the opposite side of the continent.


      2. A few Priimydians managed to accidentally wander to the other continents of Orfyd before the creation of The Wall and formed other civilizations.


   5. Though a crisis was averted for the mortals below, the Guardians made war above. For it was said that one day The Demiurge would be brought back to be with his people and live forever amongst them in splendid form. This had been prophesied by Priotheer when his people would often ask him of the fate of The Guardians and the world that was to be at a cost which would soon pay for his downfall.
   6. For Ovulus, upon hearing of this prophecy, sought to make himself The New Demiurge and turned all of the Guardians against one another save for one (550 AG). Whenever these Guardians were on the brink of death, Ovulus would slay them and devour their essence. When there remained but one Guardian (750 AG), Aer of Aerul, Ovulus’s power was unrivaled.
   7. Aer, seeing the destruction, of his fellow Guardians ventured to Orfyd to tell Priotheer of this new crisis just as the king had settled the first. Priotheer knew of this War Amongst the Guardians and knew the catastrophe it could rue on his people and, thus, commissioned The Guild of Righteousness (GoR) amongst his armies to slay the rebel Guard.
      1. Each knight who gained entry into The GoR was ordained by Priotheer after facing their greatest fear in The Caverns of Fear, the roots of The Stone Tree, and obtaining a unique weapon in The Stone Tree’s branches. None were able to pinpoint The Tree’s location due to the fact that Priotheer transported a few of them there at a time and back via the light of creation.
      2. Each knight is also given a suit of armor made of Sychurel metal which deflects magic but is really heavy and, thus, hard to move in unless one possesses a nearly peak human strength.


   8. Before the battle which was to lie ahead, Priotheer had a special suit made for Aer so that he could maintain the power he had when he was in his own realm (as Guardians are weaker outside of their home realms). Aer, with this armor, could control lightning within Orfyd and, potentially, channel lighting from Aerul. The two, with massive armies hunted down the rebel Guard and fought him amidst vast plains. Aer summoned a bolt of lightning, the likes of which have never been seen, from Aerul and Orfyd against Ovulus. This killed the rebel Guard and Aer likewise (980 AG). Aer’s soul lived on and he became the Demiurge but as part of The One. However, Ovulus had also survived. Unbeknownst to all, Ovulus had developed a way to have his soul live on as a pocket realm of his own making.


4. The Republic, The Empire (1000 AG - 1487 AG):
   1. After The War of The Guardians (550 AG - 980 AG), the Priimydians questioned Priotheer’s ability to rule and, furthermore, the ability of a sole monarch to rule over them. They saw the calamity that was wrought by The Guardians which he had created and death that followed on his watch which they thought to be total. The majority of them wanted Priotheer gone and some even wished for execution as they saw him solely responsible for the deaths of many Priimydian sons. They thus hastened to remove him from the throne and diminish the position entirely with the creation of The Priimydian Republic (1000 AG). However, as his last act as king, Priotheer commissioned the creation of The Arbiter (the magic sword).


      3. The Arbiter’s three defining qualities:
         1. It burns off its age.
         2. Can only be wielded by he who needs it most for the preservation of good in the world.
         3. Returns to the scabbard of the chosen one and fills it in a way that is most similar to how liquid fills a glass.


   2. Priotheer left the continent and took refuge in The Stone Tree and deposited The Arbiter into its well so that it would rest within one of the tree’s many branches. The Priimydian Republic discovers the continent of Rigum and finds the people of Iluria (1015 AG)  and set up many forts and trading posts in their territory to the Ilurian’s chagrin. The Priimydians pursue nearly mercantilist policies with the Ilurians and force them into trading through veiled threats. The Priimydians when facing this new world and new splendor experience a cultural and, then, economic decline. The Ilurians then, unknowingly, rebel against Priimydian hegemony during this decline (1475 AG). They use magic which the Priimydians had no previous knowledge of and the First Ilurian War (1475 -1480 AG) lasts far longer than they initially expected despite the Priimydians distinct technological advantage (ie. canons and full plate armor). The Priimydians then experience The Great Plague five years after the initial skirmishes and lose a quarter of their population. This causes them to have to surrender to Iluria. The general consensus amongst the military and political leaders of Priimydia becomes one against the idea of the common people in government and overtime the common people have been less active in governance. The people across Priimydia become subject to mandatory test (similar to intelligence quotient testing) and, supposedly, the twelve most fitting of ruling over the Priimydian people are made kings. The Twelve Kings and the majority of political leaders blame the Ilurians for the plague, making cunning use of the knowledge of the arcane magic they used and the fact that the Ilurians did not have the plague, and say that they will lead Priimydia out of the darkness which the people of previous generations doomed them to. The Priimydian Empire becomes a war time country and the magic absorbing metal known as Effulum is used to construct its vast armory. Forced conscriptions are issued and The Second Ilurian War breaks out and ends in the same year to a Priimydian victory in which the Priimydians wipe out a quarter of the Ilurian population, thus committing their worst atrocity, before making Iluria a territory/official colony (1487 AG).


      4. Effulum turns more brittle until it reaches a shattering point after absorbing high quantities of magic. The brittling of Effulum, put shortly, has a positive correlation with how much magic the metal absorbs.


   3. The Twelve Kings don’t want to stop their conquest however and fully convince a populace brought up in the time of the plague of the threat other civilizations beyond their grasp may pose. Thus Priimydia claims war on the world.


5. The War Against Death (1487 - 1491 AG)
   1. Priimydia goes to war against Cenedia where there are rumors of a threat which lies beyond the mountains and has made a waste of the plains and lurks like a beast in the shadows of the forest. They call it Tenebral and it has risen during the fall of Priimydia. He, as it were, is the Avatar of Ovulus born into the world anew and wishes to eliminate pain due to the pain his creator once felt and out of the view that he did so to no end but the end of all. On a lighter note for a moment, there are also rumours of a traveling magic bard who goes by the name of Sygil. He, as it were, is actually Priotheer whom was forced to flee The Stone Tree around the time of The Second Ilurian War. There, at The Stone Tree, now lies a pale dragon which breaths smoke that summons fear within the minds of men who get near. In the forest and in the plains, there wait faceless beasts (known as The Fog collectively) with numbing claws who summon a roar that sounds like the screaming of children to drive most away and emit a fog-like mist which entrances the brave. At the head of these, there is The Shadow of Tenebral, a living image of Ovulus as he once was philosophy and all: able to speak and kill.
   2. Sygil, shortly after The Second Ilurian War, retreats to a small island off the coast of Cenedia and forsees the coming of three heroes to set the world on the best course. These are Heron Hereward of Priimydia, Noman of Rēmdor, and Triferus Taliesin of Priimydia.


      5. Heron Hereward is known as The Guardian of Priimydia and The Son of the Empire throughout the lands and has the strength of a demigod and the intelligence of a savant. He wields a two hundred pound sword known as ‘The Bane of Villains’ and a shield of the same weight known as ‘The Defense of Heroes’. He also wears a special suit of armor: the innermost layer is composed of leather, the middle layer is chainmail, and the outer is full and intricately designed plate. However, these things hardly matter on the journey he unexpectedly takes. He fights in The Siege of Iluria and wins great renown for his feats of strength and the invention of the steam engine from then on. He is given a statue in his likeness by the people of Priimydia for his greatness. After Cenidia is taken, he is called back to the capital to serve as The Consul of Domestic Affairs (one of the two positions directly under The Twelve Kings). Furthermore, The Twelve Kings give him a laboratory to build his engine which he proposed was capable of moving a carriage or armored cart on its own. He continues to work on the engine unperturbed by the world around him until he starts to notice that, much unlike himself, The Twelve carry a plethora of flaws: these stem from the fact that they’re not as smart, and they’re not as strong. He becomes further convinced of this when The Twelve decided to shut down his engine project. Heron begins to see himself as more fit than they for the title of king and Critias (The Consul of Foreign Affairs) notices this and urges Heron further into that idea. Eventually Critias, convinces Heron of an idea to kill The Twelve and, furthermore, convinces Heron that it was actually Heron’s idea. Heron asks the kings to show up for a demonstration of the engine actually working and, when they all show up and are standing fairly close to the device, the engine explodes, it being rigged to do so by Heron’s own machinations. Heron sees this then feels a sharp pain in his back. He turns around to see that Critias just stabbed him in the back. He lunges for the old man but Critias uses a blast of magic fire to knock the ceiling down above him, trapping Heron in flaming rubble. Critias then shuts the laboratory's huge metal door and locks it from the other side. Heron manages to break free of the rubble and picks up ‘The Bane of Villains’ and starts hitting a part of the wall in an effort to escape. Eventually, he breaks through the wall to the other side and sees that he’s just above a river. He throws a huge piece of wood from the wreckage of the cart into the river and then jumps in after it. He gets on the wood and falls asleep, exhausted from the near death experience. He wakes up in a village surrounded by forestry and sees that his wounds have been bandaged. This is the hidden village of the Old GoR Kights. He befriends an old man and former knight. The old man tells him of what life was like during the days of the republic and imparts on Heron the author’s personal philosophical leaning. He shows Heron his old Sychurel armor and says that he might give that to Heron, as he has no son to pass it on to due to the plague. He trains Heron back to full strength in a secluded meadow. One day when Heron has finally managed to beat the Old Knight at a practice duel they see the village on fire. It turns out that the current GoR (now a KGB-like police force) has found them and wants the Old Knights dead. The two help fend off the village but The Old Knight dies. Heron heads off to slay Critias, taking the Sychurel armor (it fits perfectly) and ‘The Bane of Villains’. He sneaks into the main government building and finds out that Critias has told the people that Heron killed the kings and has made himself emperor. He finds Critias the throne room all by himself. He goes in and locks the door behind him and fights Critias. ‘The Bane of Heroes’ shatters down to one shard connected to the hilt when facing the immense magic of Critias; however, Heron tackles Critias and pushes the shard into Critias’s heart, killing him as Heron sees the people tearing down his statue in the distance. He hears a thumping at the throne room door. It is here that Heron realizes he must kill through his people in order to survive. He chooses instead to let the guards arrest him, seeing that , despite the evil present in man at the moment, he too has the power to bring about the greatest goods or the basest evils. When he shackled, he tortured and brought on display before those in the city before he is paraded and beaten and starved throughout the newly conquered colonies. This goes on for quite some time: four months. However, in Prodium, he is rescued by Sygil, Triferus, Noman and a collected force from Volstrum and Rēmdor. When he escapes he goes on a quest to slay Tenebral with Triferus and Noman but does so without the legendary strength he once possessed. He uses his intelligence to get them out of many troubles; however, his trial is one in which he must solve one of the greatest of all: how he should overcome his fear of death brought out by his weakened form and how should he exist in a world where men do much evil. Indeed, his journey is an attempt to find why life is worth living despite the sins of others.


         4. It is important to note here that Heron grew up in the city during the fall of the republic and was raised by a family of elites. He is a ‘perfected’ child of the empire.




      6. Noman is named such simply because he is not one man. He became a being of many lives when he fell into The Well of Rēmdor as a boy in his first life (1090AG - 1099 AG) . This well acted a storage of magic for the elders of his city and was believed to be a mystical connection between the spirits of Rēmdor and, thus, granted Noman near immortality through rebirth. At the time of his first death, Rēmdor was in a state of constant war and expansion, and their main adversary were a savage and brutal people called the Arthagians. So, as Noman was reborn, within the same year of his death, to a noble family he grew to be a great general for his people. Under his guidance the Arthagians were left bereft of their massive empire and remained in a few cities. All the while, Noman recollected a memory of himself as a boy who fell down a well. He found these memories of a past life to be nothing but the memories of dreams and continued his life of great renown. Noman eventually retired and lived a life of luxury before dying of old age; this life was in the years 1099 AG - 1169 AG. He was again reborn to a noble family within the same year of his death. This time, however, he grew to remember both lives and sought out friends he had made in his previous life. He told them things that were only known between him and they when he had been The General and, thus, convinced them of this remarkable condition that he possessed. He eventually convinced the rulers of the land as well; they came up with a system in which he could always come to the ruling class and be recognized: he would need to tell whomever the current king was at any given time a secret of some sort that only he and the king would know he would then be granted his old position and wealth. The prophets of the city foretold that he would truly rest after his seventh life and that he would experience the greatest joys and the greatest sorrows. Noman thought that such was the lot of all men and considered himself no different than they in this aspect. Noman then brought himself to become a living legend and together with large armies drove the Arthagians to their capital. Noman again retired and died of old age in a life of splendor, living from 1169 AG to 1243 AG. Although the Rēmdorians only sought territory and wished to avoid bloodshed, the Arthagians, after being driven back to one city, feared their lives and became desperate for a way to vanquish their oppressors. They turned to the guidance of a radical, and even more brutal, magic sect known as The Cursed Ones. The leader of this sect was known as Magoni and engineered a plan to rid the world of the threat of Noman. He used the magic of the group to conger up a vision in a sacrificial flame which would show them who Noman was and where he dwelt. At this time Noman was living an ordinary life with a family, thinking that he had done his part and that the task of war was over. Magoni cursed him with a blind rage and made the hero slay his family with his own hands while The Cursed Ones brought havoc to the village in which he dwelt. Magoni thought that this would break him and that he would be left so distraught that he wouldn’t dare tempt the might of Arthagia ever again. However, as he snapped from his rage and realized what he had done, he wept tears of wrath and sorrow and took a resolution to wipe the Arthagians from the earth. He leads his armies to bring the peoples of Arthagia to their knees through the utmost cruelty and only when he had strangled Magoni to death with his bare hands did he relent. Afterwards, he realized that he had become the very model of brutality which he had sought to destroy and that vengeance had gained him nothing but terror, guilt, and bloodshed. He took his life in his grief, realizing the true scope of what he had done. He had led a genocide of a people out of his own want for revenge. Thus, Noman’s fourth life lasted from 1243 AG to 1273 AG. He was, of course, reborn in the same year as his death. However, this time, when he had recollected his memories, he chose to live as a reclusive monk, deciding that he had done more harm than good with his life and sought a solace of peace in the humanities. Reading the great works of civics, theology, and philosophy to find something that could help him bear the weight of his wrongs: something that would allow him to escape the tormenting voices of guilt forever more. He tried ignorance, but it failed. He tried forgiving himself due to the circumstances with the same result. Within this lifetime he thought that the only way he could atone for his wrongs was by seeking and acting towards a better world: to stave off the suffering inherent in man’s existence. This idea followed him to his grave and he was reborn within the same year of 1368 AG. He had his purpose, now he needed to find a way to implement it into reality. This is what brought him to the mathematical and scientific world of invention and discovery. He created better methods of metallurgy and perfected treatment methods for various diseases but rarely did he stray from the thought of his own moral degradation. He finished this life having benefited the lives of millions throughout time but he still had one last lifetime to overcome his past; for though he had done many a task to escape his past he had not the strength to overcome it. He was reborn for the last time in 1461 AG. As he ages in this lifetime he hears word of a savage and brutal peoples making their way throughout the continent of Rigum. He hears of their exploits against the Ilurians, those in Cenidia, and Prodium. Furthermore, he hears word of their massive ships making way for Volstrum, a neighboring empire on the continent on which he resides. He slowly inched his way back to the sword, so to speak, but determined to seek information in Volstrum to find what way he could best serve them and, thus, his own people as well, though he could not convince his people, the Rēmdorian, to come to the aid of the Volstrum people who had long ago been an enemy. He appeared before the people of Volstrum with a note from a Rēmdorian King of old proving that he was the legendary Noman whose tales have, by this point, spread far and wide. Desperate for assistance in any form, they ask him what their next course of action should be but he tells them that he will show them in time but that he will not slay a single man. He eventually goes on to lead the Voltrums in resistance against the Priimydians using guerilla tactics, making note how magic is useless against his enemy. However, the fact that the vast majority of Volstrum’s military power relied on the use of magic leads them to be pushed back to the capital regardless of Noman’s efforts. The outer walls of the city proved no match against Priimydian cannonry and, thus, the Priimydians stormed Volstrum with a speed that had never been seen before. In a desperate attempt to allow Volstrum citizens and soldiers of the outer city to escape to the inner city, protected by the inner wall, Noman chose a small garrison to halt the incoming Priimydian forces at a narrow road leading to the gate of the inner wall. Though it would buy those within the inner wall little time to mount another defense, it was time nonetheless. Noman, realizing this, took to the sword despite his reluctance to do so and fought with his men against the technologically and numerically superior enemy. His arms grow weary and his men begin to fall like flies when he hears the sound of Rēmdorian horns in the distance. In front of him, flames rise from the ground, blocking off the Priimydians from what remained of his garrison. From the flames Sygil appeared in shining armor along with Triferus and a Rēmdorian infantry. In the distance, they saw a Rēmdorian cavalry advance on the Priimydian camps. The day had been won and Noman collapsed from exhaustion. He woke up in the infirmary with Sygil offering him a chance to take that which he seeks most. He tells Sygil that he has already tried to escape to no avail and shows the blood on his hands. Sygil tells him that he isn’t offering him a chance to escape but overcome. Noman eventually relents to go on a quest to slay Tenebral. He, Sygil, Triferus, and a combination of the continent’s soldiers sail to Rigum and free Heron at Prodium. Noman then journeys with Heron and Triferus to fulfill the quest. He fears becoming the man he once was and his journey is one in which he must discover why life is worth living despite the sins one bears. (so that no one will ever have to suffer the same pain)


      7. [NEEDS WAY MORE DEVELOPMENT] Triferus Taliesin is the son of a Priimydian and an Ilurian. His family died in The Great Plague and the magistrate confiscated his family’s property and sent him to a Guild of Righteousness Training School for the Young when he was only ten years of age. While there, he, like most of the young men of his generation, was brought up to be a Priimydian soldier. Although he spends most of his life there and on the plains of battle, he can never stray his mind from the ghosts of his past and is haunted by the memories of his family and the fact that he has no one to turn to and no one to blame for these deaths he bears. He is filled with rage and hatred for the natural world and the suffering inherent within it. He hates the arbitrary nature of the world and rages at the fact that he has no one to blame and that he can do nothing against it. To him, it will always be and he will always suffer because of it. He sees no future beyond this war save for the hope and fear that he may go on to raise a family. It is a hope because he hopes he can raise them up and provide them with a better life than he was allowed and that they can do the same. Furthermore, it is all the power he has to ensure that no else will suffer the pain he bears. It is a fear because he believes he will fail and that the world will only take and never give. These are the things that he thinks about as he marches along the trail of war; he the war believes is just another arbitrary ruling of nature, being the consequence of influences by it and having been a son of an Ilurian during the final days of the republic. Although this view of the world causes him to be a tremendous recluse, he befriends a fellow soldier by the name of Xavier Pravunius. Xavier is spied on by The GoR for his deliberate attempts to gain knowledge legally meant for their eyes only; these are mainly their knowledge of Tenebral and his beasts and who the GoR leader is. He and Xavier notice that a man by the man of Mortimer is watching them when they sit at the dining hall. This leads Xavier to recommend walking and talking by the secluded falls of Cenidia at Prodium. There are several attempts on Xavier’s life; thereafter, he experiences an attempted poisoning, a faulty and explosive cannon, and a fire in his quarters. One day when Triferus and Xavier are walking towards the entrance of the falls they notice men following them and when they get to the falls they see armed guards and Mortimer waiting for them. Triferus is given orders to head to the ship and Xavier is given orders to follow him. It is here that they discover that Mortimer is an inspector for The GoR. Triferus thinks that Xavier dies when he, in fact, does not. Xavier visits him at his ship quarters and tells him as much. He also tells him that he managed to push Mortimer down the falls but fell in after him and that he only survived by grabbing onto a ledge and waiting for the armed guards to go away (hours). After leaving Prodium, he sails on a military vessel for Volstrum; however, a massive storm occurs and he is left stranded on a seemingly deserted isle and he loses his friend to the storm. He buries Xavier there and later meets Sygil and is imparted with wisdom for his troubles (author’s philosophy) after a while and is told that there is a quest that will allow him to hope more than fear. He relents to take the quest and Sygil says that, in that case, they have much work to do. They sail for Rēmdor; here, Sygil convinces the Rēmdorians to come to the aid of Volstrum. Triferus and Sygil then sail with an army to Prodium; they set Heron free and Sygil stays to watch over the army. Triferus joins Heron and Noman on the quest to slay Tenebral. His fear is gaining a good life and having it torn from him (see Job) and his journey is a question of why one should live despite the pain inherent in the natural world.


   3. [NEEDS WAY MORE DEVELOPMENT] The quest to slay Tenebral begins at Prodium and Sygil gives the heroes a special compass to guide them on their journey and tells them that they must acquire The Arbiter and throw it high into the air in order to summon him to their aid when they need it most and the compass is spinning. Heron, Noman, and Triferus then make way through the Cenedian Mountains and enter The Forest of Despair. The first encounter a small and abandoned Priimydian fort with shards of metal scattered around the premises. They enter inside easily and shut and lock the gates behind them. Inside Heron notices that many engines laying around that are based off his own; some are even connected to armored and bladed carts with many gears. Furthermore, the crew realizes that the fort must have been abandoned in haste due to the large amount of weaponry within the fort. They decide to settle there for the night, thinking that despite the bad signs, it’s better than sleeping in the wilderness, and Heron takes guard. During the night Heron is walking on around the walls of the fort and notices fog surrounding the fort. He then hears a blood curdling roar that sounds like the screams of children and, because he is wearing the Sychurel helmet, sees pale faceless creatures bounding towards the fort. He tries to wake Triferus and Noman to no avail, as they are in a trance. He checks to see if they’re still alive and finds that they’re still breathing. He then hears a creature climbing up on the wall farthest from him. He thinks fast and gets one of the engines and manages to turn it on. He grabs spare parts scattered around the ground and creates a device capable of launching spears. He places it on one of the carts and sets it to rotate and attached a curved piece of wood holding many spears to work as a cartridge for the device. The device fires a spear every two seconds at the top of the wall which the beasts are climbing.  If the device hits then it hits. If it misses the spear goes down to hit some beast climbing up the wall anyway.  Heron, soon realizes that this will not hold them off, as there are too many of them and too few spears and engines and parts. He takes the engine fashioned under the cart out and removes some gears and then gets three more engines; he puts each engine under the cart roughly equidistant from each wheel (for every wheel there is one engine) and reconfigures the gears with tools he also finds beneath the cart. The beasts begin to flood the wall just as Heron loads Triferus and Noman and a package of gunpowder into the cart and just as the device runs out of spears. He then starts the cart and it busts through the gates and they drive fast through the forest and into the night. One of the beasts lands on the cart however and knocks a sword out of Heron’s hand and would have killed him had Triferus and Noman not snapped out of their trances at the same instant and rescued him. During this, Triferus and Noman were each trapped within their own paradisiacal trance. Triferus dreamt that he his parents were still alive and that he had a family of his own; he dreamt that the plague never happened. Noman dreamt that the Arthagians never came and that he never took revenge. They each had to force the collapse of the trance by realizing it to be false, and thus came to truly realize and accept that one can not fix the past, and they each woke up to kill the beast that nearly kills Heron. Noman stabs it with a spear and Triferus decapitates it with his sword. They all then fall asleep and are awakened the next day by the sun streaming light across the horizon of the Rigum Plains. The carts engines have all ran out of fuel (a form of liquid containing gunpowder; will fix later) and they are forced to walk the rest of the way. However, when the look back at the treeline of the forest a few days they see a dense fog where their cart must have been. This makes them hasten their pace without food or rest till they reach a bridge over a large crevice leading to The Stone Tree. The Fog has gotten really close at this point and they swear they can see the dark silhouette of a man amidst the fog. They cross the bridge and cut the ropes holding it up. They enter the domain of The Stone Tree but hear a large bellow from far off. Then, in the distance, they see a large pale dragon (wyvern) with no eyes and smoke arising from his teeth. Heron tells Triferus and Noman to enter the caverns and that he would follow after he had taken care of the beast. They can’t convince him otherwise and go their ways into the caves. While they dwell in the caves Heron throws spear after spear at the beast to no avail. The beast takes them in stride and barrels after Heron. Heron braces himself with sword and spear and is knocked into one of the many caves. His shield and spear were knocked to the ground were he had braced himself and the dragon was coming towards him. It was then that he noticed a skeleton with a spear in its hand nearby in the cave. He then heard a voice within the cave say: “Heron Hereward. You have faced your greatest fear. Pick up the spear and toss.” Heron remembers the gunpowder he in his pack and attaches an explosive to the spear and tosses at the dragon. The spear lodges itself into the dragon’s neck and, as Heron sprints further into the cave, it explodes. This kills the pale dragon of the tree of stone. Shortly after, Triferus and Noman emerge from the tree. Triferus is wielding The Arbiter, and Nomane is wielding a spear of pure Sychurel. They were each forced to face their greatest fears: Triferus had to face having a family and losing them to a storm, and Noman and to face become something evil to save those he cared about. They go on to pass another rickety bridge in order to continue their journey; however, once they get to the other side, Sygil’s compass starts acting strange and turning in all directions and finally back the way they came. They hear ropes snap and look behind to see the bridge collapse and two of the beasts from earlier standing by the posts with their claws. The compass starts spinning wildly again and they see the dark silhouette, with many ranks of the beast following after him, walking towards them; they’re surrounded. The silhouette reveals himself to be Ovulus as he once was (The Shadow of Tenebral) and remarks with a grin that these are whom the old man has sent. He offers them two choices: to surrender and thus die painlessly right there or to face him (all together) in single combat with the chance that he is defeated and that they can continue their journey. They choose the latter without a word and with Noman tossing his spear at The Shadow’s head. The Shadow knocks the spear out of the air just as Heron is charging at him with shield and spear, with Triferus close behind. The Shadow merely kicks Heron’s shield faster than he can react and sends him barrelling back the way he came. Triferus tries to cut The Shadow down with The Arbiter but he dodges it. Triferus, however, strikes again quickly and manages to lightly scratch The Shadow. The scratch heals and The  Shadow uppercuts Triferus off his feet and also kicks him (mid-air) in the direction which he came. He then pulls out his sword which is burning with blue flames and his armor encapsulates him. Triferus, realizing their in a tight spot, throws The Arbiter into the air. A beam of light comes down with lighting coming down on The Shadow. Sygil emerges from the beam of light and kills the beasts with the same light. The Shadow shoots a torrent of flames at the old man, but Sygil summons the winds to his aid and keeps the flames back. The Shadow ceases the flames for an instant and  then gets the claws of the fallen beasts to come towards Sygil like arrows drawn from an army on high ground. Sygil, however, takes the heated wind and uses it as a shield around him and the claws turn to dust when they hit the orb. The Shadow then blasts dark lightning (which can only be seen because it sucks up the light around it) at Sygil, but Sygil catches it with light from his staff. Sygil then blasts a torrent of light at The Shadow, overwhelming him, shattering its sword and armor, and knocking him to the ground in pain. Sygil comes towards The Shadow and kneels closes to him. (maybe) The Shadow begins to fade in the way that smoke does so from a cooling ember that was once aflame and says: “Goodbye my father.” Followed by Sygil saying: “Goodbye, once more, my wayward son.” The Shadow then fully fades and Sygil sits on a nearby log and calls the heroes towards him. He tells Triferus to place The Arbiter far in front of him and to burn his staff. Afterwards, he tells them all that his time has come. Then, just as the sun begins to set, he begins to fade into specks of light, he says his last words, and the specks go towards the sword. Triferus picks up The Arbiter and the heroes continue their journey. They manage to avoid further external conflicts until they reach the gates of Tenebral; however, their provisions begin to run low and the hunger and thirst begin to sit in as the lands begin to change into a dark wasteland. They push past the gates and find a tall (sauron-like) being armored toe to tip in black plating with four horns emerging from his helm and four empty eye holes wear eyes should have been behind the plated mask. Unhesitating, the heroes charge the tall figure known as Tenebral. Noman lunges with his spear from one side while Triferus cuts down with sword in the middle and Heron lunges with a spear from the other side. Tenebral catches Noman’s spear with one hand and knocks both Heron and Triferus back with the other. He then kicks Noman back, breaking his ribs, and throws the spear towards his head. Noman barely dodges it and is grazed and bleeding and can hardly move without wheezing. Triferus then comes at Tenebral with the point of The Arbiter aimed towards his chest. Tenebral blasts dark lightning at Triferus and, though Triferus can stand to lift the sword for a short while, the sword is knocked out of his hand and he is hit by the blast. Triferus is knocked back next to Noman and is barely holding on to his consciousness when he tries to grab for The Arbiter in his sheath but finds it missing. He looks up to see Heron wielding the blade. Triferus and Noman then watch as Heron’s strength slowly returns with each step he takes and the sword burns brighter as he makes his way to Tenebral. He nears Tenebral and stabs into the monster’s chest and turns to his friends and says one last goodbye before vanishing in a massive explosion of light. Unknown to all, Heron goes on to face the realm of Ovulus for eternity. 




                                                                           That is All for Now.